Gurkan Genc is a Turkish cyclist touring around the world and started his tour in 2012. He is planning to make a tour around the world with bicycle, not returning to Turkey. He will only use bicycle to travel.
He will only use another transportation only to cross continents and islands. He is monitoring his route to send to Guiness World Records.
He was born in January 15, 1979 in Turkey. He graduated from the Faculty of Communication, Department of Radio-Television-Cinema. He worked in some short term jobs.  His life changed when he met Ankara Thursday Night Bicyclists' community. 
Ankara Thursday Night Bicyclists' community where he got familiar with bike and city biking rules and in the end began to commute on bike daily.
His first long distance bicycle tour from Amasra to Istanbul in september 2009. In October 2009, he joined the Gokova Bicycle Tour organized by Mugla Bicyclists Association.
He accomplished his first international tour from Turkey to Japan between April 2010-March 2011 which he called 'Pedal for Nature on' his own budget. He pedaled for 12,500 km through Middle and Eastern Black Sea regions of Turkey, Georgia, Azerbaijan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, China, Mongolia, South Korea and Japan.
He was the first Turk, who pedaled through Central Asian Turkic States, the entire North Asia and the Silk Road, the Karakum Desert in Turkmenistan, the Gobi Desert in Mongolia, the Wakhan Valley of Tajikistan requiring about 37,000 km of climb on bike in total and Pamir Gateway the so called roof of the world at an altitude of 4,650 m.
During 2011-2012 he shared his experiences with 25,000 people from 38 universities, 48 primary schools, 30 private and government agencies. He still continue to share his experiences with lots of young people, and inspiring them.
"Pedal for Future" is the project which Gurkan Genc is planning to visit all 5 continents in bicycle within 8 years has started in 2012. He plans to finish it in 2020. During his tour he visited lots of people from lots of different cultures. 
During his tour, he faced minus 40°C at night in his tent, minus 57°C in winter and plus 61°C in the dessert in summer on his bike. He has become one of the few touring cyclists and explorers crossing the Arctic Circle in winter and traversing deserts in summer during a "World Tour".

Europe leg: Turkey, Bulgaria, Romania, Moldova, Ukraine, Russia, Finland, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Italy, Monaco, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Scotland, England, Spain,
 

North Africa and Middle East leg: Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Israel, Palestine, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Bahrein, Qatar, United Arab Emirates Oman, Ethiopia, Kenya, Tanzania, Malawi, Zambia, Botswana, Swaziland, Lesotho and SouthAfrica
His current location is Buenos Aires-Argentina. He traveled 61.370 km on bicycle. He also had 67 flat tires.
He has his own website where he posts blogs about his world tour. He also shares information about the location he is, and other statistics about his world tour. 
